The results of an A/B test or
similar experiment can be evaluated by something called a t-test.
A t-test compares the means of two groups to see whether any difference
in the means is large enough that it is probably not due to random chance.
In the case of an A/B or multivariate tests,
a t-test helps us understand whether any differences observed in
conversion rate are likely due to the change we made to the test groups experience.
To properly evaluate the results of a t-test,
there are three steps that need to be taken before testing.
Step 1, is stating the null hypothesis,
the null hypothesis is not an affirmative statement,
but rather represents the idea that the control state is not different from a test date.
You run an experiment hoping to have
large enough differences between control and test to prove that test date is different,
this is called rejecting the null hypothesis.
A generic null hypothesis would be that customers do
not convert better with a test state compared to the control state.
Step 2 is the hypothesis you want your experiment to show.
For example, customers prefer our new landing page.
A generic alternative hypothesis would be
customers will convert differently with this change.
Step 3 is a set a confidence threshold,
every experiment has some chance of error.
It is worth noting that product managers almost
universally use a 95 percent confidence level.
If the results of the tests at 95 percent confidence appear statistically valid,
there's only a one in 20 chance that the result is an error.
95 percent threshold is fairly strict,
but not as strict as a 98 percent confidence level
that is more common in medical studies with higher stakes.
On one hand, a higher confidence level means you won't get
as many false positives that declare your experiment likely had an effect when it didn't.
On the other hand, a higher confidence level also means you might declare
a tests to not have had an effect when it actually had a weak one.
Setting a confidence interval before performing a test ensures you aren't tempted
later to lower your confidence threshold to make your results statistically significant.
Once the hypotheses and competence threshold for an experiment have been set,
you can move on to Step 4, running the experiment.
When the experiment has been run and data collected,
Step 5 is to see whether any test groups perform better than the control.
To calculate this, you will need to know
the number of users in the control group and in each test group,
the number of conversions in each group,
and the competence threshold you want to use for the test.
By entering this information into any of
the free statistical significance calculators available online,
you will be able to see if the test group
performed significantly different than the control group.
Other than the number of users and conversions in each group,
some statistical significant calculators will
ask you if a test is one tailed or two tailed.
A two-tailed test means your test might make
the conversion rate worse or better, higher or lower.
For example, the red button from
the previous example might increase newsletter readership,
but it also might have a bad impact and decrease readership.
Because the results might go in two directions,
the test is two-sided,
almost all product experiments will be two-tailed tests.
Most online calculators will tell you if the results are
significance by telling if the p-value is less than a threshold.
Without going into too many details,
if the competence threshold you choose is 95 percent,
and it is a two-tailed test,
the value of the t-test is compared against 0.025.
When the p-value is less than 0.025,
the difference in the control in the experiment conversion rates can be
considered significant at 95 percent confidence.
In other words, the null hypothesis can be rejected.
The final step, Step 6,
is to take action based on the results of your experiment,
if your evaluation found the change to be
helpful and the results are statistically significant,
you can expand the test condition to more or all of your users.
If the change didn't have the desired effect or the results aren't significant,
you should keep experimenting.
In fact, whatever the results,
good product managers will always be running experiments
and evaluating the results to improve their product.